Updating What is Libp2p (#134)
libp2p/docs: content/introduction/what-is-libp2p.md

weight: 2
---

> Moving from a location-addressed system to a peer-to-peer, content addressed system presents a lot of challenges. The internet as it is, with firewalls and NATs, was designed to provide data (securely) in the traditional Web2 system. There are also a lot of assumptions built in, such as assuming that everyone has the same level of technological resources availability to prevent latency and reliability issues.

Reviewer: Not sure I understand the last part of the sentence. Better examples would be:
* there's a central server that clients connect to
* these servers are addressed with their domain name (and Certificate Authorities verify their identity)

> Moving from a location-addressed system to a peer-to-peer, content addressed system presents a lot of challenges. The internet as it is, with firewalls and NATs, was designed to provide data (securely) in the traditional Web2 system. There are also a lot of assumptions built in, such as assuming that everyone has the same level of technological resources availability to prevent latency and reliability issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Moving from a location-addressed system to a peer-to-peer, content-addressed system presents many challenges. The internet as it is, with firewalls and NATs, was designed to [securely] provide data. There are also trust assumptions, as clients must trust the central servers they connect to and the data they provide, despite these servers verifying their identity using certificate authorities.
```

> Libp2p is a modular system of *protocols*, *specifications* and *libraries* that enable the development of peer-to-peer network applications. Because of the way libp2p is architected, a lot of the needs and considerations that the web2 network was built on no longer apply.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
libp2p is a modular system of *protocols*, *specifications* and *libraries* that enable the development of peer-to-peer network applications. Because of the way libp2p is architected, a lot of the needs and considerations that the web2 network was built on no longer apply.
```

> libp2p is a modular system of *protocols*, *specifications* and *libraries* that enable the development of peer-to-peer network applications. Because of the way libp2p is architected, a lot of the needs and considerations that the web2 network was built on no longer apply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
libp2p is a modular system of *protocols*, *specifications* and *libraries* that enable the development of peer-to-peer network applications. Because of the way libp2p's architecture, most of the needs and considerations that the current web was built on no longer apply.
```

_A [peer-to-peer network][definition_p2p] is one in which the participants (referred to as [peers][definition_peer] or nodes) communicate with one another directly, on more or less "equal footing". This does not necessarily mean that all peers are identical; some may have different roles in the overall network. However, one of the defining characteristics of a peer-to-peer network is that they do not require a privileged set of "servers" which behave completely differently from their "clients", as is the case in the predominant [client / server model][definition_client_server]._

Because the definition of peer-to-peer networking is quite broad, many different kinds of systems have been built that all fall under the umbrella of "peer-to-peer". The most culturally prominent examples are likely the file sharing networks like bittorrent, and, more recently, the proliferation of blockchain networks that communicate in a peer-to-peer fashion.

## What problems can libp2p solve?

While peer-to-peer networks have many advantages over the client-server model, there are also challenges that are unique and require careful thought and practice to overcome.

> With libp2p, it makes it possible for you to preserve your identity from network to network, overcome network censorship issues, as well as communicate over different transfer protocols that different applications use to communicate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
libp2p makes it possible for you to preserve your identity from network to network, overcome network censorship issues, as well as communicate over different transfer protocols that different applications use to communicate.
```
